2.6. Statistical analysis Data are presented as mean with SD. Statistical significance was accepted at p < .05. Distributions were checked for normality with a one-sample Kolmogorov–Smirnov test. A two-way repeated measures analysis of variance (i.e., REPANOVA) using walking condition (i.e., symmetrical versus asymmetrical) and cognitive task (i.e., walking with or without cognitive task) as main factors, was used to find significant differences in psychophysiological parameters and subjective ratings of workload between the four conditions (Table 1). If the interaction effect was significant, a one-way REPANOVA and post hoc paired t-tests with Bonferroni correction were applied to identify pairwise differences. If the interaction effect was not significant, pairwise comparisons with Bonferroni corrections among the levels of the significant factors were performed. For SCL, SCRampl, SCRfreq and ST, the difference in room temperature before and after the experiment was taken into account as a covariate (i.e., REPANCOVA). A Friedman’s ANOVA and a post-hoc Wilcoxon signed rank test with Bonferroni correction Fig. 1. Extraction of temporal gait parameters. The top panel depicts the VGRF profile from the left (solid gray line) and right (dashed gray line) pressure-sensitive insole. The bottom panel shows the results of the classification in gait phases (i.e., stance (ST) and swing (SW)) and the use of these phases to calculate temporal gait parameters for the left foot (L): DtL ST, DtL SW, DtL DS. The same applies to the right foot (R): DtR ST, DtR SW, DtR DS . K. Knaepen et al. / Human Movement Science 40 (2015) 248–263 25

were used for not normally distributed data. Differences in gait parameters between walking with and without cognitive task and differences in reaction time and accuracy on the MRT between symmetrical and asymmetrical walking were tested by means of a paired t-test.
- Psychophysiological response to cognitive workload during symmetrical, asymmetrical and dual-task walking