# July 2022

Our team has continued the development of a virtual reality (VR) simulator for an ankle prosthesis. Previous work established a virtual environment where the user can view a virtual ankle prosthesis and control the dorsi- and plantar-flexion using real-time surface EMG signals. We have successfully added a Bluetooth-based IMU to track the rotation of the user’s knee joint instead of relying on imprecise joystick input from handheld controllers. This method allows for intuitive control of the virtual lower limb where it “follows” the user’s natural movement. With the underlying control in place, current work will focus on adapting the IMU’s communication protocol so it can communicate directly with the Meta Quest 2 running an Android OS instead of a PC intermediary.

We have also begun developing a dual task experiment. The dual task paradigm centers on the concept that gait involves high level cognition, specifically executive function and attention. With limited resources, a person concurrently executing a motor and cognitive task may demonstrate a measurable performance degradation in one or both tasks. This methodology has been applied to study neurological diseases in Alzheimer’s and Parkinson’s populations. With lower-limb amputees, qualitative reports indicate they devote more focus to walking suggesting a higher cognitive load. A handful of studies have investigated amputee populations and found significant gait changes during dual tasking compared to able-bodied participants. We will assess dual task performance in lower-limb amputees with and without elicited plantar sensation to investigate how restored sensation may affect the cognitive load during walking. Our pilot study will consist of self-paced treadmill walking and a cognitive Stroop test. Currently, the protocol is being finalized and will be performed with able-bodied participants before being implemented with amputee participants.

# March 2022

## Edited

Over the last reporting period, our team has worked on developing a virtual reality (VR) simulator for an ankle prosthesis. The EMG input captured from the implanted intramuscular recording electrodes will be utilized to control a virtual representation of a real-life myoelectric ankle prosthesis. This VR simulator provides a platform to decouple the myoelectric control scheme from the physical prosthesis. Hence, compared to the implementation on a real prosthesis, it will be easier to train users on myoelectric control and it provides a user-friendly and safe environment to test a variety of control algorithms. Thus far, we have completed the creation of a VR environment in which a user can observe their virtual lower body. The avatar’s virtual ankle performs dorsi- and plantar-flexion in response to real-time surface EMG signals from an able-bodied user. The user can also interact with simple environmental objects (buttons, bouncing balls) using handheld controllers. Additionally, our team has established a communication method between the VR headset and existing lab equipment controlled by MATLAB. The development of the VR environment was based on Oculus Quest 2 but it can be easily adopted for any other commercially available VR devices. Our team continues to refine the control law used to translate EMG signals into the virtual ankle movement, as well as to improve the VR environment to make it more naturalistic and capable of running experiments. An amendment to the IRB was submitted in early February 2022 to seek approval for VR experiments with the enrolled amputee participants.

## Original

My work has consisted of technical development for a virtual reality (VR) simulator for an ankle prosthesis. The goal of this project is for a user to use EMG input to control a virtual representation of a real life myoelectric prosthesis. The advantage of this simulator is that the myoelectric control scheme can be decoupled from the physical prosthesis. This separation can allow for more accessible training for users new to myoelectric control as well as a platform to test new control schemes in a standardized, reproducible environment.

Thus far a VR environment has been created where a seated user can see their virtual lower body, and the virtual ankle can flex up and down in response to surface EMG signals from an able-bodied user. The user can also interact with simple environmental objects (buttons, bouncing balls) using handheld controllers. For VR I am using an Oculus Quest 2 headset and controllers. In addition to a functional VR environment, I have established a communication method between the VR hardware and existing lab equipment with MATLAB-based software using UDP networking. With the basic software and hardware in place, future work will consist of refining the control law used to translate EMG signal to the virtual ankle movement, as well as improving the VR environment to make it user friendly and capable of running experiments within it.